NOTICE:  This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the 
bound volumes of NLRB decisions.  Readers are requested to notify the Ex-
ecutive  Secretary,  National  Labor  Relations  Board,  Washington,  D.C.  
20570, of any typographical or other formal errors so that corrections can 
be included in the bound volumes.

Sequel  of  New  Mexico  LLC,  d/b/a Bernalillo  Acade-
my and Andrea  E.  Baumgartner and District 
1199NM,  National  Union of  Hospital  and 
Healthcare Employees  AFSCME,  AFL-CIO. 
Case 28–RD–093404

December 15, 2014

DECISION AND CERTIFICATION OF RESULTS 

OF ELECTION

BY CHAIRMAN PEARCE AND MEMBERS MISCIMARRA

AND JOHNSON

The  National  Labor  Relations  Board,  by  a  three-
member  panel,  has  considered  objections  to  an  election 
held December 21 and 22, 2012, and the hearing officer’s
report recommending disposition of them.  The election 
was conducted pursuant to a Stipulated Election  Agree-
ment.  The tally of ballots shows 18 for and 21 against 
the Union, with no challenged ballots. 

The Board has reviewed the record in light of the ex-
ceptions  and  briefs,  has  adopted the  hearing officer’s
findings  and  recommendations  only  to  the  extent  con-
sistent with this Decision, and finds that a certification of 
results of election should be issued.

The  hearing  officer  recommended  sustaining  the  Un-
ion’s  Objection  1,  which  alleges  that  the  Employer  en-
gaged in objectionable conduct by holding a holiday par-
ty for employees on the first day of the election without a 
past  practice  of  holding  such  parties.1    For  the  reasons 
that follow, we reject the hearing officer’s recommenda-
tion. 

On November 16, 2012,2 employee-Petitioner Andrea 
Baumgartner  delivered  a  decertification  petition  to  the 
Board, which was filed and served on the parties on No-
vember 19.  Also on November 19, the Employer’s “em-
ployee  retention  committee” (consisting  of  four  manag-
ers and two employees) issued a flyer that announced a 
staff holiday party to be held on December 21.3  The fly-
er described the party as a “staff dinner” for employees 
and their guests, to be held on December 21 from 6 to 9 
p.m.,  and  the  invitees  included  nonunit  as  well  as  unit 
employees.    On  November  26,  the  Regional  Director 
                                                          

1 In the absence of exceptions, we adopt pro forma the hearing of-

ficer’s recommendations that Objections 2, 3, and 4 be overruled.

2 All dates hereafter are in 2012. 
3 The flyers did not refer to the decertification election, and the De-
cember 21 and 22 election dates had not been set at the time the party 
was  announced.    To  the  contrary,  as  noted  in  the  text,  the  Stipulated 
Election  Agreement  was  not  approved  by  the  Regional  Director  until 
November 26. 

361 NLRB No. 127

approved a Stipulated Election Agreement scheduling the 
election for December 21 and 22.  On December 21, ap-
proximately  65  people  attended  the  party,  which  was 
held  at  a  barbeque  restaurant  and  featured  appetizers, 
drinks,  and  a  buffet.    Employees  were  not  paid  for  at-
tending,  and  the  election  was  not  discussed.    The  Em-
ployer  provided  food  and  smoothies  at  its  facility  for 
employees who were required to work during the party.

During  the  critical  preelection  period,  the  Employer 
offered employees food at other times in addition to the 
holiday party, providing smoothies on at least one other 
occasion.    Also,  about  2 weeks  before  the  election,  the 
Employer started allowing employees to eat lunches pro-
vided  for  the  students  at  the  Bernalillo  Academy (the 
Academy).    No  evidence  was  introduced  regarding 
whether,  how  often,  or  how  many  employees  ate  the 
lunches.    One  week  before  the  election,  the  Employer 
held  a  voluntary  meeting  at  the  facility  during  work 
hours at which it served breakfast burritos and beverag-
es.4    Since  it  began  managing  the  Academy  in  March 
2011, the Employer had not previously hosted a party or 
offered free food or drink.  The Union did not allege the-
se other “free food” events as objectionable. 

The  hearing  officer  noted  that  the  Employer  an-
nounced  its  holiday  party  on  the  same  day  the  petition 
was filed, held the party on the first day of the election, 
and had no prior history of hosting parties.  Citing these 
facts and the closeness of the election, the hearing officer 
found that employees would reasonably view the holiday 
party  and  additional  instances  of  free  food  described 
above  as  a  “series” of  “first-time  benefits” provided  to 
dissuade  employees  from  supporting  the  Union.    She 
recommended that the results of the election be set aside.  
We disagree.

The  Board’s  principles  in  this  area  are  longstanding 
and have been equitably applied to employers and unions 
alike:   “[C]ampaign parties,  absent special circumstanc-
es, are legitimate campaign devices.”  L. M. Berry & Co., 
266 NLRB 47, 51 (1983) (citing Fashion Fair, Inc., 157 
NLRB 1645, 1646 fn. 3 (1966), enfd. in relevant part 399 
F.2d 764 (6th Cir. 1968)) (employer’s Christmas party—
                                                          

4 The  hearing  officer  found that,  at  this meeting,  managers  “asked 
employees how they could make things better.”  In its brief in response 
to  the  Employer’s  exceptions,  the  Union  claims  that  the  Employer 
thereby  engaged  in  an  objectionable  solicitation  of  grievances.    The 
Union  did  not,  however,  file  any  objection  alleging  a  solicitation  of 
grievances.    Assuming  without  deciding  that  the  Union  could  have 
raised its solicitation-of-grievances claim by way of exceptions to the 
hearing  officer’s  report,  it  did  not  do  that,  either.    Accordingly,  the 
Union’s claim is not properly before us.  The Union also contends that 
certain managers’ comments place the holiday party “in context”; but 
again, it filed no exceptions and thus did not except to the fact that the 
hearing officer did not link the managers’ comments to the party.  Ac-
cordingly, this contention is also not before us.   

2

DECISIONS OF THE NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD

free 

food  and  drink 

at  which  the  union  was  not  mentioned—8 days  before 
election was lawful).  Thus, the Board “will not set aside 
an  election  simply  because  the  union  or  employer  pro-
vided 
the  employees.”  
Chicagoland Television News, Inc., 328 NLRB 367, 367 
(1999).5  However, the Board will examine whether par-
ticular  events  constitute  or  involve  benefits  sufficiently 
large  to  interfere  with  laboratory  conditions  for  a  fair 
election,  which  can  result  in  setting  aside  the  election.  
See Chicago Tribune, 326 NLRB 1057 (1998). 

to 

In determining whether the objecting party has estab-
lished special circumstances, the Board examines several 
factors, including (1) the size of the benefit conferred in 
relation to the stated purpose for granting it; (2) the num-
ber  of  employees  receiving  it;  (3)  how  employees  rea-
sonably  would  view  the  purpose  of  the  benefit;  and  (4) 
the timing of the benefit.  Chicagoland Television News, 
supra at 367 (citing B & D Plastics, 302 NLRB 245, 245 
(1991)).  As the objecting party, the Union has the bur-
den  to  show  by  specific  evidence  that  there  has  been 
prejudice to the election.  Affiliated Computer Services, 
355 NLRB 899, 900 (2010). 

After carefully considering all relevant factors, we find 
that the Union has not met its burden on the specific facts 
of this case.  First, the Union failed to present any evi-
dence regarding the size of the benefit—i.e., the cost of 
the food and drinks provided by the Employer—in rela-
tion to its stated purpose.  Absent such evidence, there is 
no basis to find this holiday party, even considered with 
the  other  instances  of  free  food  and  drinks  provided by 
the Employer, is like the lavish brunch found objectiona-
ble in Chicago Tribune, 326 NLRB at 1057.6  Rather, the 
party  appears  to  have  been  more  like  the  event  found 
unobjectionable in Chicagoland Television News, supra, 
328 NLRB at 367.  The Union has failed to meet its bur-
den of providing specific evidence relative to the first B 
& D Plastics factor.7

Moreover, the evidence in this case does not establish 
anything about the arrangements for the party or the con-
duct at the party that amounts to “special circumstances.”  
All  employees,  unit  and  nonunit,  were  invited  to  attend 
                                                          

5 See  also  Lamar  Advertising  of  Janesville, 340  NLRB  979,  980 
(2003);  E-Z  Recycling,  331  NLRB  950,  952  (2000);  Jacqueline 
Cochran, Inc., 177 NLRB 837, 839 (1969); Lloyd A. Fry Roofing Co.,
123 NLRB 86, 87–88 (1959).

6 See also Gould, Inc., 260 NLRB 54 (1982) (combination Christmas 
party and open house found objectionable where, among other actions, 
employer distributed more than $2000 in gifts to children of employ-
ees).

7 Accordingly,  we  need  not decide  whether  other  instances  of  free 
food and drink not alleged as objectionable were sufficiently related to 
the Union’s objection concerning the holiday party to warrant consider-
ation.    See  Precision  Products  Group,  319  NLRB  640,  641  fn.  3 
(1995), and cases cited therein. 

the  holiday  party.    Attendance  was  voluntary,  and  em-
ployees were not paid for the time spent at the party.  See 
Chicagoland Television News, supra (party unobjection-
able  where  nonunit  employees  were  also  invited  to  at-
tend, attendance was voluntary, and employees were not 
paid for attending); compare River Parish Maintenance, 
Inc., 325 NLRB 815, 815 (1998) (paying employees ex-
tra hour’s pay to attend offsite “crab boil” found objec-
tionable).    Nor  was  there  mention  of  the  Union  or  the 
election at the holiday party.  See Fashion Fair, Inc., 157 
NLRB at 1646 fn. 3 (“Respondents’ preelection party, at 
which no mention was even made of the Union, clearly 
did not violate the Act.”); Chicagoland Television News, 
supra  (party  unobjectionable  where  invitation  promised 
“No  electioneering!  Just  food,  drink,  and  good  compa-
ny!” and there were no campaign speeches). Finally, we 
accord little weight to the fact that this was the first such 
event  any  witness  could  recall  because  the  Employer 
only assumed management of the facility 21 months be-
fore the election.

As for the timing of the party, there is no evidence that 
the election date had been set at the time the party  was 
announced.    We  recognize  that the  holiday  party  was 
held in close proximity to the election, and that some of 
the other instances of free food and drink during the crit-
ical period may not have been provided if there were no 
election.    But  where  free  food  and  drink  is  otherwise 
unobjectionable, proximity to the election is insufficient 
to  create  special  circumstances  warranting  a  new  elec-
tion.    See  Chicagoland  Television  News,  supra  (party 
held  day  before  election  unobjectionable);  see  also 
Peachtree City Warehouse, Inc., 158 NLRB 1031, 1035–
1036,  1039–1040  (1966) (employer-sponsored  dinner 
with  music,  dancing,  and  liquor  shortly  before  election 
unobjectionable);  Lach-Simkins  Dental  Laboratories,
186  NLRB  671,  671–672  (1970)  (union-sponsored  free 
luncheon at the time and near the place of polling unob-
jectionable); Lloyd A. Fry Roofing Co., supra (union par-
ty, day before election).8
                                                          

8 In  upholding  Objection  1,  the  hearing  officer  cited  Notre  Dame 
Hills Medical Services, 247 NLRB 957 (1980), and Lou Taylor, Inc.,
226  NLRB  1024  (1976),  enfd.  per  curiam  in  relevant  part  564  F.2d 
1173 (5th Cir. 1977).  Those cases are distinguishable.  

In Notre Dame, the employer had announced that employees would 
have to pay to attend its holiday party.  Two days after the representa-
tion petition was served on the employer, the employer posted a notice 
stating that the party would be free and, soon thereafter, announced a 
wage increase and gave each employee $10 cash.  247 NLRB at 959.  
The  Board  adopted  the  judge’s  findings  that  the  employer’s  conduct 
improperly dissuaded employees from supporting the union in violation 
of Sec. 8(a)(1).  Here, by contrast, the party was always free, and there 
were no allegations of any objectionable announcements, or grants of 
wage increases, or bonuses.  

BERNALILLO ACADEMY

3

Under the circumstances of this case, we find that the 
party  did  not  constitute  objectionable  conduct  that  war-
rants setting aside the election.  Accordingly, for the rea-
sons  stated  above,  we  overrule  Objection  1  and  certify 
the results of the election.

CERTIFICATION OF RESULTS OF ELECTION
IT IS CERTIFIED that a majority of the valid ballots have 
not  been  cast  for  District  1199NM,  National  Union  of 
Hospital  and  Healthcare  Employees  AFSCME,  AFL–
                                                                                            
In  Lou  Taylor, the  day  before  the  election  the  employer  promised 
there  would  be  a  Christmas  party  1 week  after  the  election  and  that 
employees (i) would work until noon the day of the party but be paid 
for the full day, and (ii) would receive a paid holiday the following day.  
226  NLRB  at  1029.    The  Board  adopted  the  judge’s  finding  that  the 
employer unlawfully promised and then granted “its employees a half 
day’s paid holiday while they attended the Christmas party.”  Id.  Here, 
by contrast, employees were not paid for attending the party as a new 
holiday benefit.

CIO,  and  that  it  is  not  the  exclusive  representative  of 
these bargaining-unit employees.

Dated, Washington, D.C.  December 15, 2014

______________________________________
Mark Gaston Pearce,
             Chairman

______________________________________
Philip A. Miscimarra,
Member

______________________________________
Harry I. Johnson, III,
Member

(SEAL)                NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD

