NOTICE:  This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the 
bound  volumes of NLRB decisions.  Readers are requested to notify the Ex-
ecutive  Secretary,  National  Labor  Relations  Board,  Washington,  D.C.  
20570, of any typographical or other formal errors so that corrections can 
be included in the bound volumes.

Latino Express, Inc. and Carol Garcia and Pedro Sal-
gado and International  Brotherhood  of Team-
sters,  Local  777.  Cases13–CA–046528,  13–CA–
046529, and 13–CA–046634

December 15, 2014

DECISION AND ORDER

BY MEMBERS HIROZAWA, JOHNSON,

AND SCHIFFER 

On July 31, 2012, the Board issued a Decision and Or-
der and Notice and Invitation to File Briefs in this pro-
ceeding, which is reported at 358 NLRB No. 94.  There-
after,  the  Respondent  filed  a  petition  for  review  in  the 
United  States  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  District  of  Co-
lumbia  Circuit,  and  the  General  Counsel  filed  a  cross-
application for enforcement.  

At the time of the Decision and Order and Notice and 
Invitation  to  File  Briefs,  the  composition  of  the  Board 
included  two  persons  whose  appointments  to  the  Board 
had been challenged as constitutionally infirm.  On June 
26,  2014,  the  United  States Supreme  Court  issued  its 
decision  in  NLRB  v.  Noel  Canning, 134  S.Ct.  2550 
(2014),  holding  that  the  challenged  appointments  to  the 
Board  were  not  valid.    Thereafter,  the  court  of  appeals 
vacated the Board’s Decision and Order and Notice and 
Invitation to File Briefs and remanded this case for fur-
ther  proceedings  consistent  with  the  Supreme  Court’s 
decision. 

The National Labor Relations Board has delegated its 

authority in this proceeding to a three-member panel.

In view of the decision of the Supreme Court in NLRB 
v. Noel Canning, supra, we have considered de novo the 
judge’s decision and the record in light of the exceptions 
and  briefs.    We  have  also  considered  the  now-vacated 
Decision  and  Order  and  Notice  and  Invitation  to  File 
Briefs, and we agree with the rationale set forth therein.  
Accordingly, we affirm the judge’s rulings, findings, and 
conclusions  and  adopt  judge’s  recommended  Order  to 
the extent and for the reasons stated in the Decision and 
Order and Notice and Invitation to File Briefs reported at 
358 NLRB No. 94, which is incorporated herein by ref-
erence and as amended below.1
                                                

1 In its now-vacated decision, the Board invited interested parties to 
file briefs addressing whether, in connection with an award of backpay, 
the Board should routinely require a respondent to (1) submit the ap-
propriate documentation to the Social Security  Administration so that 
when backpay is paid, it is allocated to the appropriate calendar quar-
ters, and (2) reimburse a discriminatee for any excess Federal and State 

361 NLRB No. 137

ORDER

The  National  Labor  Relations  Board  orders  that  the 
Respondent,  Latino  Express,  Inc.,  Chicago,  Illinois,  its 
officers, agents, successors, and assigns, shall

1.  Cease and desist from
(a) Discharging  or  otherwise  discriminating  against 
employees  because  they  engage  in  protected  union  or 
concerted  activities,  including  supporting  the  Interna-
tional Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 777, or any other 
labor organization.

(b) Coercively interrogating employees about their un-

ion membership, activities, sympathies, or support.

(c) Prohibiting employees from discussing their terms 

and conditions of employment.

(d)  Creating  the  impression  that  it  is  engaged  in  sur-
veillance of its employees’ union or other protected con-
certed activities.

(e) Soliciting grievances from employees and promis-
ing  to  remedy  them  in  order  to  discourage  employees 
from selecting union representation.

(f) Promising improved benefits to employees in order 
to discourage employees from selecting union represen-
tation.
                                                                             
income  taxes  the  discriminatee  may  owe  in  receiving  a  lump-sum 
backpay award covering more than 1 year.  358 NLRB No. 94, slip op. 
at 2–3.  After receiving supplemental briefs, the Board answered those 
questions in the affirmative.  Latino Express, Inc., 359 NLRB No. 44 
(2012),  reaffirmed  in  Don  Chavas,  LLC  d/b/aTortillas  Don  Chavas, 
361 NLRB No. 10 (2014).  Accordingly, we shall modify the judge’s 
recommended Order to conform with Tortillas Don Chavas.  We shall 
also substitute a new notice to conform to the Order as modified and in 
accordance with Durham School Services, 360 NLRB No. 85 (2014).

In addition, we find merit in the General Counsel’s exception to the 
judge’s failure to recommend that the notice be read aloud to employ-
ees by the Respondent or a Board agent.  Specifically, we find that this 
case merits a public reading of the notice by coowner and vice presi-
dent, Henry Garduñio, or by a Board agent in the presence of Garduñio, 
to employees assembled on company time because “[t]he Respondent’s 
violations  of  the  Act  are  sufficiently  serious  and  widespread  that  the 
reading of the notice is necessary to enable employees to exercise their 
Section 7 rights free of coercion.” Carey Salt Co., 360 NLRB No. 38, 
slip op. at 2 (2014).  See, e.g., Homer D. Bronson Co., 349 NLRB 512, 
515 (2007) (notice-reading remedy ordered where respondent’s senior 
manager threatened plant closure and job loss at meetings if employees 
voted for union representation), enfd. mem. 273 Fed. Appx. 32 (2d Cir. 
2008).  Garduñio was personally involved in the unlawful discharges of 
Carol  Garcia  and  Pedro  Salgado,  and  engaged  in  a  number  of  other 
violations of the Act during the union organizing campaign by solicit-
ing  grievances  from  employees,  interrogating  an  employee  about  his 
union  support,  and  creating  an  impression  of  surveillance  of  union 
supporters.  In those circumstances, we find that a reading of the notice 
by Garduñio, or in his presence, is appropriate “to dissipate as much as 
possible any lingering effects of the Respondent’s unfair labor practic-
es,” and will allow the employees to “fully perceive that the Respond-
ent and its managers are bound by the requirements of the Act.”  Homer 
D. Bronson Co., supra (citations omitted).  If Garduñio is no longer an 
owner or officer  of the Respondent, then the Respondent shall desig-
nate another owner or officer to conduct or be present for the reading. 

2

DECISIONS OF THE NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD

(g) Granting  wage increases to employees in order to 
discourage  employees  from  selecting  union  representa-
tion.

(h)  Threatening  employees  with  discharge  if  they  se-
lect  the  Union  or  any  other  labor  organization  as  their 
bargaining representative.

(i)  Threatening  employees  with  closure  of  their  work 
facility if they select the Union or any other labor organi-
zation as their bargaining representative.

(j)  In  any  like  or  related  manner  interfering  with,  re-
straining,  or  coercing  employees  in  the  exercise  of  the 
rights guaranteed them by Section 7 of the Act.

2.  Take  the  following  affirmative  action  necessary  to 

effectuate the policies of the Act.

(a)  Within  14  days  from  the  date  of  this  Order,  offer 
Carol  Garcia  and  Pedro  Salgado  full  reinstatement  to 
their former jobs or, if those jobs no longer exist, to sub-
stantially equivalent positions, without prejudice to their 
seniority or any other rights or privileges previously en-
joyed.

(b)  Make  Carol  Garcia  and  Pedro  Salgado  whole  for 
any loss of earnings and other benefits suffered as a re-
sult of the discrimination against them, in the manner set 
forth  in  the  remedy  section  of  the  judge’s  decision  as 
amended in this decision.

(c)  Compensate  Carol  Garcia  and  Pedro  Salgado  for 
the adverse tax consequences, if any, of receiving lump-
sum  backpay  awards,  and  file  a  report  with  the  Social 
Security Administration allocating the backpay awards to 
the appropriate calendar quarters for each employee.

(d) Within 14 days from the date of this Order, remove 
from  its  files  any  reference  to  the  unlawful  discharges, 
and,  within  3  days  thereafter,  notify  the  employees  in 
writing  that  this  has  been  done  and  that  the  discharges 
will not be used against them in any way.

(e) Preserve and, within 14 days of a request, or such 
additional  time  as  the  Regional  Director  may  allow  for 
good cause shown, provide at a reasonable place desig-
nated by the Board or its agents, all payroll records, so-
cial security payment records, timecards, personnel rec-
ords and reports, and all other records, including an elec-
tronic copy of such records if stored in electronic form, 
necessary  to  analyze  the  amount  of  backpay  due  under 
the terms of this Order.

(f) Within 14 days after service by the Region, post at 
its Chicago, Illinois facility copies of the attached notice 
marked  “Appendix.”2    Copies  of  the  notice  in  English 
                                                

2 If this Order is enforced by a judgment of a United States court of 
appeals, the words in the notice reading “Posted by Order of the Na-
tional  Labor  Relations Board”  shall  read  “Posted  Pursuant  to  a  Judg-
ment of the United States Court of Appeals Enforcing an Order of the 
National Labor Relations Board.”

and Spanish, on forms provided by the Regional Director 
for  Region  13,  after  being  signed  by  the  Respondent’s 
authorized  representative,  shall be  posted  by  the  Re-
spondent and maintained for 60 consecutive days in con-
spicuous  places,  including  all  places  where  notices  to 
employees are customarily posted.  In addition to physi-
cal posting of paper notices, notices shall be distributed 
electronically, such as by email, posting on an intranet or 
an internet site, and/or other electronic means, if the Re-
spondent  customarily  communicates  with  its  employees 
by such means.  Reasonable steps shall be taken by the 
Respondent  to  ensure  that  the  notices  are  not  altered, 
defaced,  or  covered  by  any  other  material.    If  the  Re-
spondent has gone out of business or closed the facility 
involved in these proceedings, the Respondent shall du-
plicate and mail, at its own expense, a copy of the notice 
to all current employees and former employees employed 
by the Respondent at any time since September 20, 2010.
(g) Within 14 days after service by the Region, hold a 
meeting or meetings, scheduled to ensure the widest pos-
sible  attendance,  at  which  the  attached  notice  is  to  be 
read to the employees by Respondent’s coowner and vice 
president,  Henry  Garduñio,  or  at  the  Respondent’s  op-
tion,  by  a  Board  agent  in  the  presence  of  Henry 
Garduñio,  with  translation  available.    If  Garduñio  is  no 
longer  an  owner  or  officer  of  the  Respondent,  then  the 
Respondent  shall  designate  another  owner  or  officer  to 
conduct or be present for the reading. 

(h)  Within  21  days  after  service  by  the  Region,  file 
with the Regional Director for Region 13 a sworn certifi-
cation of a responsible official on a form provided by the 
Region  attesting  to  the  steps  that  the  Respondent  has 
taken to comply.
    Dated, Washington, D.C.   December 15, 2014

______________________________________
Kent Y. Hirozawa,
Member

______________________________________
Harry I. Johnson, III,
Member

______________________________________
Nancy Schiffer,
Member

(SEAL)                NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD

LATINO EXPRESS, INC.

3

WE  WILL  NOT  in  any  like  or  related  manner  interfere 
with, restrain, or coerce you in the exercise of the rights 
listed above.

WE WILL, within 14 days from the date of the Board’s 
Order,  offer  Carol  Garcia  and  Pedro  Salgado  full  rein-
statement to their former jobs or, if those jobs no longer 
exist, to substantially equivalent positions, without prej-
udice  to  their  seniority  or  any  other  rights  or  privileges 
previously enjoyed.

WE WILL make Carol Garcia and Pedro Salgado whole 
for any loss of earnings and other benefits resulting from 
their discharge, less any net interim earnings, plus inter-
est.

WE WILL compensate Carol Garcia and Pedro Salgado 
for  the  adverse  tax  consequences,  if  any,  of  receiving 
lump-sum  backpay  awards,  and  WE  WILL file  a  report 
with  the  Social  Security  Administration  allocating  the 
backpay awards to the appropriate calendar quarters for 
each employee.

WE WILL, within 14 days from the date of the Board’s 
Order, remove from our files any reference to the unlaw-
ful  discharges  of  Carol  Garcia  and  Pedro  Salgado,  and 
WE WILL, within 3 days thereafter, notify each of them in 
writing  that  this  has  been  done  and  that  the  discharges 
will not be used against them in any way.
LATINO EXPRESS, INC.

be 

can 

Board’s 

decision 

at 
The 
www.nlrb.gov/case/13-CA-046528 or by using the QR code 
below.  Alternatively, you can obtain a copy of the decision 
from  the  Executive  Secretary,  National  Labor  Relations 
Board, 1099 14th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20570, or 
by calling (202) 273-1940.

found 

APPENDIX

NOTICE TO EMPLOYEES
POSTED BY ORDER OF THE

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD

An Agency of the United States Government

The National Labor Relations Board has found that we vio-
lated Federal labor law and has ordered us to post and obey 
this notice.

FEDERAL LAW GIVES YOU THE RIGHT TO

Form, join, or assist a union
Choose  representatives  to  bargain  with  us  on 

your behalf

fit and protection

activities.

Act together with other employees for your bene-

Choose  not  to  engage  in  any  of  these  protected 

WE  WILL  NOT  discharge  or  otherwise  discriminate 
against  any  of  you  for  engaging  in  protected  union  or 
concerted  activities,  including  supporting  International 
Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 777 (the Union), or any 
other labor organization. 

WE WILL  NOT coercively question you about your un-

ion membership, activities, sympathies, and/or support.

WE WILL NOT prohibit you from discussing your terms 

and conditions of employment.

WE  WILL  NOT  create  the  impression  that  we  are  en-
gaged  in  surveillance  of  your  union  or  other  protected 
concerted activities.

WE WILL NOT solicit grievances from you and promise 
to remedy them in order to discourage you from selecting 
union representation.

WE WILL NOT promise you improved benefits in order 

to discourage you from selecting union representation.

WE WILL NOT give you wage increases in order to dis-

courage you from selecting union representation.

WE  WILL  NOT  threaten  to  discharge  or  otherwise  dis-
criminate against any of  you  if  you  select the  Union or 
any  other  labor  organization  as  your  bargaining  repre-
sentative.

WE WILL NOT threaten you with closure of your work 
facility if you select the Union or any other labor organi-
zation as your bargaining representative.

