  

Hamilton, AL

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

BEFORE THE NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD

NTN BOWER CORPORATION

and

INTERNATIONAL UNION, UNITED
AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE & 
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT
WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO

and

GINGER L. ESTES

Case 10-RD-105644

DECISION AND DIRECTION OF THIRD ELECTION

The National Labor Relations Board, by a three-member panel, has considered 

objections to an election held on November 1, 2013, and the hearing officer’s report 

recommending disposition of them.  The election was conducted pursuant to a 

Stipulated Election Agreement.  The tally of ballots shows 83 for the Union and 85 

against, with no challenged ballots.

The Board has reviewed the record in light of the exceptions and briefs and has, 

for the reasons set forth below, adopted the hearing officer’s findings and 

recommendations,1 and finds that the election must be set aside and a new election 

held.

                                                          
1 In the absence of exceptions, we adopt pro forma the hearing officer’s recommendation to 
overrule the Union’s Objections 1 and 3.

I.

The Union has represented employees in a unit of production and maintenance 

employees at the Employer’s Hamilton, Alabama facility since 1976.  Pursuant to a 

decertification petition filed on May 22, 2013, an election was held on June 21, 2013.  

Following the filing of objections by the Union to conduct affecting the results of the 

election, the parties executed a Stipulation to Set Aside Election.  

Two days before the second election, Plant Manager Rufus McMillan held a 

series of captive audience meetings, which were attended by the entire workforce.  The 

credited testimony of multiple witnesses establishes that during these meetings, 

McMillan repeatedly told employees that Hamilton was the Employer’s only unionized 

facility, that employees at the plant had not received a raise in over a year, and that 

employees at the Employer’s Macomb, Illinois facility made more money than they did.2  

McMillan admitted that, after reminding employees that Hamilton was the only plant with 

a union, he then asked:  “The Union has been here for the last year -- how many raises 

have you received?”

The hearing officer found that McMillan’s comments constituted an implied 

promise of higher pay if employees decertified the Union.  She reasoned that the 

message employees took away from McMillan’s statements was that they had not 

received a raise in over a year because they were represented by the Union and that 

they would get a raise if they rejected the Union in the upcoming election.  We agree 

                                                          
2 The Employer introduced the script that McMillan followed as evidence.  The script consisted 
of a list of bullet points.  The Employer also introduced the accompanying Powerpoint slides that 
were displayed during McMillan’s speech.  The six slides contained the same bullet points as 
the written script.  Comments concerning higher wages at Macomb and Macomb’s non-union 
status were included in two sections of McMillan’s script, supporting the inference that McMillan 
made these comments at least twice during each meeting.  Further, McMillan admitted that he 
made additional comments that were not included in the script. 

2

that McMillan’s comments constituted an implied promise of wage increases, requiring 

that the election be set aside and a new election held.

II.

An employer may lawfully inform employees of the wages and benefits its 

nonunion employees receive, and it may respond to requests for information from 

employees about such benefits.  See, e.g., Suburban Journals of Greater St. Louis, 

LLC, 343 NLRB 157, 159 (2004).  The Board will set aside an election, however, when 

the employer makes an implied promise of benefits to employees, which interferes with 

employees’ free choice in the election.  See, e.g., Etna Equipment & Supply Co., 243 

NLRB 596 (1979).  Determining whether a statement is an implied promise of benefits 

involves consideration of the surrounding circumstances and whether, in light of those 

circumstances, employees would reasonably interpret the statement as a promise that 

benefits would be adjusted if the union were voted out.  See Viacom Cablevision, 267 

NLRB 1141, 1141 (1983).  The Board views employer statements “from the standpoint 

of employees over whom the employer has a measure of economic power.”  Mesker 

Door, 357 NLRB No. 59, slip op. at 5 (2011) (citation omitted).  That approach comports 

with the Supreme Court’s admonition that the Board “take into account the economic 

dependence of the employees on their employers, and the necessary tendency of the 

former, because of that relationship, to pick up intended implications of the latter that 

might be more readily dismissed by a more disinterested ear.”  Id. (quoting NLRB v. 

Gissel Packing Co., 395 U.S. 575, 617 (1969)).3  

                                                          
3  Contrary to our dissenting colleague’s suggestion, Sec. 8(c) of the Act – as the Board has 
long held – does not apply in representation cases.  E.g., Kalin Construction Co., 321 NLRB 
649, 652 (1996), citing Dal-Tex Optical, 137 NLRB 1782, 1787 fn. 11 (1962), and General Shoe 
Corp., 77 NLRB 124, 127 & fn. 10 (1948).

3

The Board has long held that comparisons between union and nonunion

facilities, and related statements of fact, may, depending on their precise contents and 

context, convey implied promises of benefits.  See e.g., Grede Plastics, 219 NLRB 592, 

593 (1975); Westminster Community Hospital, Inc., 221 NLRB 185, 185 (1975), enfd. 

mem. 566 F.2d 1186 (9th Cir. 1977).  Cases in this area turn on their particular facts.

Given the content of McMillan’s remarks, considered in the context of their 

surrounding circumstances and viewed from the standpoint of employees, we agree 

with the hearing officer that employees would reasonably interpret what McMillan said 

as a promise of a raise if they decertified the Union.  McMillan’s repeated comparison of 

wages and raises between Hamilton and Macomb effectively equated the two facilities; 

McMillan pointed to no differences between them –- except, of course, that Hamilton 

was unionized and Macomb was not, and that the Macomb employees made more 

money.  In the context of the decertification campaign, McMillan’s statements clearly 

conveyed to the Hamilton employees that rejecting the Union would directly redound to 

their financial benefit.  

Further, McMillan’s repeated references to the failure of employees to receive a 

raise in over a year reasonably suggested to employees that they were overdue for a 

raise and could get one, if only they removed the Union from the equation.  McMillan 

was a high-ranking official, and employees naturally would assume that he could act on 

this disparity, on which he focused so much attention.  That he went to the trouble of 

making these statements to the entire workforce, in captive audience meetings just 2 

days before the election, would only reinforce those perceptions.  

4

As the hearing officer found, in addition to impliedly promising that wages would 

be raised if employees voted the Union out, McMillan’s comments would reasonably 

tend to cause employees to fear that retaining the Union would foreclose future wage 

increases.  That these unsolicited statements were entirely attributable to the Employer 

and did not come in response to an employee’s question further supports a finding of an 

implied promise.  See Coca-Cola Bottling Co., 318 NLRB 814, 814–815, 814 fn. 3 

(1995).4    

Under all the circumstances, we agree with the hearing officer that McMillan’s 

statements, as a whole, constituted an objectionable implied promise to employees that 

requires setting aside this close election.  See Grede Plastics, 219 NLRB at 593.5  

DIRECTION OF THIRD ELECTION

A third election by secret ballot shall be held among the employees in the unit 

found appropriate, whenever the Regional Director deems appropriate.  The Regional 

                                                          
4 We disagree with our dissenting colleague’s view that we are procedurally barred from 
considering this reasonable interpretation of McMillan’s statements as supporting the objection 
predicated on those statements.  This is not a case where the Board is asked to set aside an 
election based on conduct that was not the subject of a timely objection.
5  Our dissenting colleague cites cases, some of which we cite ourselves, for the proposition that 
an employer does not engage in objectionable conduct merely by providing employees with 
information comparing compensation at its union and nonunion facilities.  We take no issue with 
that proposition, so far as it goes.  Nevertheless, there is no clear line distinguishing fact from 
persuasion, and a presentation of comparative wage information may, through word choice, 
rhetorical emphasis, or other surrounding circumstances, convey to employees the message 
that their wages will be raised if they reject the union.  We believe that message was conveyed 
here, and whether it was intentional or not is irrelevant.  See, e.g., Wausau Steel Corp. v. 
NLRB, 377 F.2d 369 (7th Cir. 1967)(“While we do not doubt that [employer’s president] 
proceeded carefully in attempting to limit his communications to his employees to the legally 
permissible, his words must be judged by their likely import to his employees.  As the trial 
examiner suggested, one who engages in ‘brinksmanship’ may easily overstep and tumble into 
the brink.”).  Although Board precedents in this area do not line up with “academic consistency,” 
NLRB v. Deaton, Inc., 502 F.2d 1221, 1228 (5th Cir. 1974), cert. denied 95 S.Ct. 2665 (1975), 
we are satisfied that the case law is consistent with a finding that the Employer engaged in 
objectionable conduct here.

5

Director shall direct and supervise the election, subject to the Board’s Rules and 

Regulations.  Eligible to vote are those employed during the payroll period ending 

immediately before the date of the Notice of Third Election, including employees who 

did not work during that period because they were ill, on vacation, or temporarily laid off.  

Also eligible are employees engaged in an economic strike that began less than 12 

months before the date of the election directed herein and who retained their employee 

status during the eligibility period and their replacements. Jeld-Wen of Everett, Inc., 285 

NLRB 118 (1987).  Those in the military services may vote if they appear in person at 

the polls.  Ineligible to vote are employees who have quit or been discharged for cause 

since the payroll period, striking employees who have been discharged for cause since 

the strike began and who have not been rehired or reinstated before the date of the 

election directed herein, and employees engaged in an economic strike that began 

more than 12 months before the date of the election directed herein and who have been 

permanently replaced.  Those eligible shall vote whether they desire to be represented 

for collective bargaining by International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace & 

Agricultural Implement Workers of America, AFL-CIO.

To ensure that all eligible voters have the opportunity to be informed of the 

issues in the exercise of their statutory right to vote, all parties to the election should 

have access to a list of voters and their addresses that may be used to communicate 

with them.  Excelsior Underwear, 156 NLRB 1236 (1966); NLRB v. Wyman-Gordon Co., 

394 U.S. 759 (1969).  Accordingly, it is directed that an eligibility list containing the full 

names and addresses of all the eligible voters must be filed by the Employer with the 

Regional Director within 7 days from the date of the Notice of Third Election.  North 

6

Macon Health Care Facility, 315 NLRB 359 (1994).  The Regional Director shall make 

the list available to all parties to the election.  No extension of time to file the list shall be 

granted by the Regional Director except in extraordinary circumstances.  Failure to 

comply with this requirement shall be grounds for setting aside the election if proper 

objections are filed.

Dated, Washington, D.C., December 15, 2014.

________________________________
Kent Y. Hirozawa,

Member

________________________________
Nancy Schiffer,

Member

(SEAL)

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD

Member Miscimarra, dissenting.

Board and court cases establish three important rules of the road regarding 

representation campaigns and the dividing line between permissible and objectionable 

employer statements about wages and benefits.  First, it is objectionable either to 

promise better wages or benefits if employees reject the union, or to threaten 

employees with worse wages or benefits if the union wins.  Second, it is permissible to 

make (and the Act protects) statements reflecting an employer’s “views, argument, or 

opinion” concerning potential union representation, provided the statements contain no 

“threat of reprisal or force” or “promise of benefit.” 6  Third, implicit in the protection

                                                          
6 Sec. 8(c) of the Act states: “The expressing of any views, argument, or opinion, or the 
dissemination thereof, whether in written, printed, graphic, or visual form, shall not constitute or 
be evidence of an unfair labor practice under any of the provisions of this Act, if such expression 
contains no threat of reprisal or force or promise of benefit.”  Although Sec. 8(c) makes specific 
reference to whether speech can constitute or be evidence of an “unfair labor practice,” the 
section articulates standards that have been construed as applying to employer speech more 

7

afforded to “views, argument, or opinion” is the permissible nature of communicating 

facts – for example, wages and benefits that have (or have not) been provided either to 

employees who will vote in the upcoming election, or to employees who work elsewhere 

or for someone else. 

The Employer, through Plant Manager Rufus McMillan, told employees at its 

Hamilton, Alabama facility that employees at its nonunion Macomb, Illinois facility made 

more money than they did.  McMillan also reminded Hamilton employees that they had 

not received a raise in over a year.  Both statements were true, and the second 

statement merely reminded the Hamilton employees—those with at least one year’s 

seniority—of what they already knew.  Nonetheless, my colleagues find these 

statements constituted an implied “promise” to grant a wage increase if employees 

voted to decertify the Union.  Here, my colleagues rely on “surrounding circumstances” 

that, in my view, are insufficient to change the employer’s factual statements into a 

prohibited “promise” (explicit or implied).  I dissent in this case because my colleagues’ 

decision is contrary to controlling Board precedent and misapplies relatively narrow 

cases where an “implied” promise has been found to exist based on circumstances very 

different from those presented here.7

                                                                                                                                                                                          
generally.  See, e.g., NLRB v. Gissel Packing Co., 395 U.S. 575, 617 (1969) (“[A]n employer’s 
free speech right to communicate his views to his employees is firmly established and cannot be 
infringed by a union or the National Labor Relations Board”); Chamber of Commerce v. Brown, 
554 U.S. 60, 67-68 (2008) (Sec. 8(c) reflects a “policy judgment, which suffuses the NLRA as a 
whole, as favoring uninhibited, robust, and wide-open debate in labor disputes.”) (internal 
quotation omitted); Healthcare Assn. of N.Y. State v. Pataki, 471 F.3d 87, 98–99 (2d Cir. 2006) 
(Section 8(c) “serves a labor law function of allowing employers to present an alternative view 
and information that a union would not present.”); United Rentals, Inc., 349 NLRB 190, 191 
(2007) (“[T]ruthful statements that identify for employees the changes unionization will bring 
inform employee free choice which is protected by Section 7 and the statements themselves are 
protected by Section 8(c).”).
7 See, e.g., Westminster Community Hospital, Inc., 221 NLRB 185 (1975) (implied promise 
found where employer compared wage rates at union and nonunion hospitals while blaming 

8

Facts

The Union has represented employees at the Hamilton facility since 1976.  

Employees at the Employer’s other facilities, including one in Macomb, Illinois, are 

unrepresented.  Two days before the decertification election at issue here, Plant 

Manager Rufus McMillan held a series of meetings with employees—one meeting per 

shift—at which he discussed issues raised in the campaign.  The presentations included 

PowerPoint slides projected on a wall while McMillan read an accompanying script.  He 

began by reciting Union claims that the Union “protects your pay and gets raises for 

you,” and that employees’ pay would be cut and they would get only a 4 cents an hour 

increase if the Union were decertified.  McMillan responded, accurately, that 







[The] Union has been here for many years; yet, Macomb makes 
more money than you do.  
[The] Union has been here for the last year—how many raises have 
you received? 
[The] [f]irst proposal from company was $.04 increase—it is called 
negotiating!  Union has not negotiated for 4 months.  Are they 
“protecting” your pay by doing nothing?

 Bottom line: The union has not made good on its claims.

McMillan also stated that Hamilton was the only plant that has a union.  After discussing 

wages, McMillan went on to list, and respond to, other Union claims that benefits and 

health insurance would be cut if the Union was not there and that the Employer has 

                                                                                                                                                                                          
union, falsely, for employer’s claimed inability to grant benefits), enfd. mem. 566 F.2d 1186 (9th 
Cir. 1977); Grede Plastics, 219 NLRB 592 (1975) (employer characterized nonunion employees 
as a “team,” told union employees that nonunion employees received larger and more frequent 
raises and better benefits, and urged them to join “this successful team”—implying that if they 
joined nonunion “team” they would enjoy “team” benefits).  

9

been cited for OSHA violations.  The presentation concluded with McMillan asking 

employees to “VOTE ‘NO’ TO THE UAW!”

The election was held November 1, 2013.  The vote was 85 to 83 to decertify the 

Union, with no challenged ballots.

Discussion

“Representation elections are not lightly set aside,” and “[t]here is a strong 

presumption that ballots cast under specific NLRB procedural safeguards reflect the 

true desires of the employees.”8  Accordingly, “the burden of proof on parties seeking to 

have a Board-supervised election set aside is a ‘heavy one.’”9     

An employer is permitted to compare its represented employees’ wages and 

benefits with those of unrepresented employees.10  Additionally, it is lawful and 

unobjectionable for an employer to state its opinion, based on such a comparison, that 

employees would be better off without a union.11  An employer also may make 

“statements of historical fact concerning the yearly increases which ha[ve] been given 

elsewhere [at nonunion facilities] in the past.”12

Precedent compels the conclusion that the Employer’s presentation regarding 

wages was unobjectionable.  Neither the hearing officer nor my colleagues identify a 

single inaccuracy in the statements at issue.  Responding to the claims that the Union 

“protects your pay and gets raises for you,” McMillan accurately stated that 

(unrepresented) Macomb employees receive higher wages and that Hamilton 

                                                          
8 NLRB v. Hood Furniture Mfg. Co., 941 F.2d 325, 328 (5th Cir. 1991).
9 Kux Mfg. Co. v. NLRB, 890 F.2d 804, 808 (6th Cir. 1989) (quoting Harlan #4 Coal Co. v. 
NLRB, 490 F.2d 117, 120 (6th Cir. 1974), cert. denied 416 U.S. 986 (1974)).
10 E.g., TCI Cablevision of Washington, 329 NLRB 700 (1999).
11 Suburban Journals of Greater St. Louis, 343 NLRB 157, 159 (2004); Langdale Forest 
Products Co., 335 NLRB 602 (2001).
12 Viacom Cablevision, 267 NLRB 1141, 1142 (1983).

10

employees had not received an increase in the past year.  McMillan made neither 

promise nor threat:  he did not say that Hamilton employees would receive a raise if 

they decertified the Union, nor did he say that they would not receive a raise if they 

retained the Union.  

The Board has held unobjectionable employer statements comparable to and 

going beyond those at issue here.  It found nothing objectionable in an employer’s pre-

election statements that wages at two of its nonunion facilities were higher than those of 

unit employees, that employees at one facility who had voted to decertify had done 

better than employees at another facility who had voted to remain represented, and that 

wages at its nonunion facilities had always been increased yearly.13  Likewise, the 

Board found that it was not objectionable for an employer to accurately report that its 

unrepresented employees were covered by a 401(k) plan and that “no union has been 

able to get the [401(k)] plan on a contract from” the employer.14  And the Board upheld 

the election where the employer provided unit employees with an outline of 

unrepresented employees’ benefits and a comparison of how much union and nonunion 

employees paid for insurance.15  There, as here, the employer “compared only benefits 

already in existence, rather than projecting future benefits if employees chose to be 

unrepresented.”16

Undeterred by contrary precedent, the majority finds that the Employer’s 

presentation amounted to an implied promise of benefits “under all the circumstances.”  

The following “circumstances” are relied upon by my colleagues: 

                                                          
13 Id. at 1141.
14 TCI Cablevision, 329 NLRB at 701 (emphasis in original).
15 Suburban Journals of Greater St. Louis, 343 NLRB at 159.
16 Id.

11

1. The statements were made in “the context of [a] decertification campaign”;

2. McMillan made “repeated references to the failure of employees to receive a 

raise in over a year”;

3. McMillan was “a high-ranking official”;

4. McMillan addressed the entire workforce in captive audience meetings;

5. McMillan spoke to employees two days before the election; and

6. McMillan made his factual statements on his own initiative (he was not 

responding to an employee’s question).

None of these so-called “surrounding circumstances” reasonably convert 

McMillan’s statements of fact into an implied promise.  My colleagues’ reliance on these 

“surrounding circumstances,” in an effort to argue McMillan’s statements fall within the 

exception to the blanket rule that an employer may communicate facts to employees 

during representation and decertification campaigns, cannot be reconciled with the 

Board’s own precedent.

The first circumstance—referring to an ongoing decertification campaign—

suggests that protected statements of fact become unlawful “promises” if they are 

conveyed during a campaign that precedes a decertification election as opposed to 

other types of elections.  No cases support the proposition that a pending decertification 

petition is a “circumstance” that converts protected statements about facts into unlawful 

promises or threats.  Board-conducted elections involve the same protected rights – for 

employees, unions and employers – regardless of the type of election taking place. 

The second circumstance—McMillan’s “repeated references” to the fact that 

employees had not received a raise in over a year—is a statement of fact.  Repeating it 

12

did not change its nature as a statement of fact.  The rule protects statements of fact.  

Moreover, it was repeated because McMillan held three meetings, one on each shift.  

The statement was made only once per meeting.  Besides, McMillan was not saying 

anything employees did not already know. 

The third and fourth circumstances—that the speaker was “a high-ranking 

official,” and that the statements were made to the entire workforce —are true of cases 

in which the Board has found statements of fact lawful or unobjectionable.17

The fifth circumstance—that the statements were made 2 days before the 

election—cannot without more (and there is no “more”) warrant a finding of 

objectionable conduct under Peerless Plywood.18

The sixth circumstance—that McMillan was not responding to an employee’s 

question—ignores that McMillan was responding to claims by the Union.  More 

importantly, it disregards Board precedent holding that “where . . . an employer is 

truthful and makes no promises or threats, it is immaterial that the [e]mployer was the 

one who raised the issue.”19

                                                          
17 See Suburban Journals of Greater St. Louis, 343 NLRB at 157 (statements made by human 
resources manager to each unit employee in individual meetings; found unobjectionable); 
Langdale Forest Products, 335 NLRB at 602 (statements made by general manager in 
newsletter mailed to all employees; found lawful); TCI Cablevision, 329 NLRB at 700 
(statements made by three managers at three pre-election captive audience meetings; found 
unobjectionable); Viacom Cablevision, 267 NLRB at 1141 (statements made by agents of 
employer, including general manager, at several meetings with various groups of employees; 
found unobjectionable).  Each of these cases involved a decertification election, further 
contradicting the first circumstance on which the majority relies. 
18 Peerless Plywood Co., 107 NLRB 427 (1953) (establishing bright-line rule against election 
speeches on company time to massed assemblies of employees within 24 hours of election, 
and adding that “non-coercive speeches made prior to the proscribed period will not interfere 
with a free election”).  In Suburban Journals of Greater St. Louis, supra, the allegedly 
objectionable statements were made during the last week of July, just days before the August 4 
election, and the Board upheld the election.
19 TCI Cablevision, 329 NLRB at 701 (citing Duo-Fast Corp., 278 NLRB 52 (1986)).

13

My colleagues cite no case in which the Board has found an implied promise of 

benefits under circumstances such as those presented here.  If circumstances like 

these negate the rule that permits employers to truthfully describe wages and benefits 

provided to existing represented and unrepresented employees, then the rule becomes 

illusory—the exception has swallowed it.  Regardless whether such a comparison 

shows that represented employees have received higher or lower wages and benefits, 

our cases uniformly establish that these facts can appropriately be communicated 

during election campaigns.

The majority claims that McMillan “clearly” conveyed to employees that rejecting 

the Union would make Hamilton like Macomb, to the financial benefit of employees, 

because he compared their “wages and raises” but pointed to no differences between 

them except that Hamilton was unionized and Macomb was not.20  But the Board upheld 

similar comparisons in TCI Cablevision, Viacom, Langdale, and Suburban Journals

where the employers similarly offered no reason for the differences in wages and 

benefits between represented and unrepresented employees.  My colleagues fail to 

distinguish those cases or explain why the Employer was required to do more in this 

case.21  The majority also claims that the Employer’s “repeated” references to the failure 

of employees to receive a raise in over a year reasonably suggested that they were 

                                                          
20 In fact, McMillan said nothing about raises at Macomb, so my colleagues err in finding that the 
Employer compared raises.  Such a comparison, if made, would have been lawful in any event.  
Viacom Cablevision, 267 NLRB at 1141 (statement that wages in employer’s nonunion facilities 
“have always been increased yearly” not a promise of benefits).
21 Moreover, my colleagues improperly place the burden of proof on the Employer to justify 
wage and benefit differences between union and nonunion employees in order to avoid a finding 
of objectionable conduct.  Absent unlawful motivation, an employer may provide union and 
nonunion employees different wages and benefits.  Shell Oil Co., Inc., 77 NLRB 1306, 1310 
(1948).  In an unfair labor practice case, the burden is on the General Counsel to prove an 
unlawful motive for the difference—not on the employer to justify it.  Here, however, my 
colleagues place the burden on the Employer to justify the difference.   

14

overdue for a raise and would get one if they voted to decertify, but that retaining the

Union would foreclose future wage increases.22   But the Employer merely stated a 

historical fact, and the statement was well within the boundaries our precedent marks 

out for unobjectionable conduct.23

Our statute provides that employees should decide for themselves whether or not 

to be represented by a union.  It is the basic judgment of Congress that employees can 

best exercise that right if they are fully informed by the parties to the election of the 

reasons for and against unionization.24  Today’s decision departs from that cornerstone 

principle, effectively precluding employers from providing accurate information in 

                                                          
22 McMillan “repeated” this statement because he made a presentation on each shift.  Each 
group of employees heard the statement once. 
23 See, e.g., Langdale Forest Products, 335 NLRB at 602 (finding no violation where employer 
stated that based on the “small increases negotiated” by the union, “compared with the larger 
increases given in our other non-union facilities, you certainly would have been better off here 
without the union”); TCI Cablevision, 329 NLRB at 700 (not objectionable for employer to state 
accurately that “no union has been able to get” 401(k) plan employer offered to unrepresented 
employees).  The hearing officer mistakenly questioned whether Langdale represents “the 
modern Board’s view regarding what constitutes an unlawful promise or threat.”  In fact, 
Langdale remains good law and has been cited with approval and applied by the Board.  See, 
e.g., Medieval Knights, LLC, 350 NLRB 194 (2007).

Insofar as they find that the Employer made an objectionable threat that employees 

would not receive a wage increase unless they decertified the Union, my colleagues exceed the 
scope of the objections.  The relevant objection alleges only that the Employer “informed 
employees that they would have higher wages if the Union lost the election.”  Any finding of an 
objectionable threat to withhold wage increases if the Union won is beyond the scope of this 
objection. See Precision Products Group, 319 NLRB 640, 641 fn. 3 (1995), and cases cited 
therein. 
24 See Sec. 8(c) of the Act.  Again, although Sec. 8(c) is not, by its terms, applicable to 
representation cases, “‘the strictures of the [F]irst [A]mendment . . . must be considered in all 
cases.’”  Allegheny Ludlum Corp., 333 NLRB 734, 737 fn. 20 (2001) (quoting Dal-Tex Optical 
Co., 137 NLRB 1782, 1787 fn. 11 (1962)).  The enactment of Sec. 8(c) in the 1947 Taft-Hartley 
amendments “manifested a ‘congressional intent to encourage free debate on issues dividing 
labor and management.’”  Chamber of Commerce v. Brown, 554 U.S. at 67 (quoting Linn v. 
Plant Guard Workers, 383 U.S. 53, 62 (1966)).  The Supreme Court has held that Sec. 8(c) 
reflects “a policy judgment, which suffuses the NLRA as a whole, as ‘favoring uninhibited, 
robust, and wide-open debate in labor disputes,’ stressing that ‘freewheeling use of the written 
and spoken word . . . has been expressly fostered by Congress and approved by the NLRB.’”  
Id. at 68 (quoting Letter Carriers v. Austin, 418 U.S. 264, 272-273 (1974)).  After today’s 
decision, the Court might want to reconsider that last phrase.    

15

circumstances that have broad application to virtually every election.  Although this 

decision is unpublished and thus not precedential,25 the outcome here represents an 

unwarranted departure from numerous Board and court cases.  Accordingly, I must 

respectfully dissent. 

Dated, Washington, D.C., December 15, 2014.

________________________________
Philip A. Miscimarra,

Member

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD

                                                          
25 Associated Builders & Contractors, 331 NLRB 132, 140 fn. 17 (2000).

16

