NOTICE:  This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the 
bound volumes of NLRB decisions.  Readers are requested to notify the Ex-
ecutive  Secretary,  National  Labor  Relations  Board,  Washington,  D.C.  
20570, of any typographical or other formal errors so that corrections can 
be included in the bound volumes.

JAG  Healthcare,  Inc.  d/b/a  Galion  Pointe,  LLC and
Service Employees International Union, District 
1199,  WV/KY/OH.  Cases  08–CA–039029,  08–
CA–039112, and 08–CA–039133
December 15, 2014

DECISION AND ORDER

BY CHAIRMAN PEARCE AND MEMBERS HIROZAWA 

AND SCHIFFER

On March 28, 2013, the Board issued a Decision and 
Order in this proceeding, which is reported at 359 NLRB 
No. 88.  Thereafter, the General Counsel filed an applica-
tion  for  enforcement  and  the  Respondent  filed  a  cross-
petition for review in the United States Court of Appeals 
for the Sixth Circuit.  

At the time of the Decision and Order, the composition 
of the Board included two persons  whose appointments 
to the Board had been challenged as constitutionally in-
firm.    On  June  26,  2014,  the  United  States  Supreme 
Court issued its decision in NLRB v. Noel Canning, 134 
S.Ct.  2550  (2014),  holding  that  the  challenged  appoint-
ments to the Board were not valid.  Thereafter, the court 
of  appeals  vacated  the  Board’s  Decision  and  Order  and 
remanded  this  case  for  further  proceedings  consistent 
with the Supreme Court’s decision. 

The National Labor Relations Board has delegated its 

authority in this proceeding to a three-member panel.

In view of the decision of the Supreme Court in NLRB 
v. Noel Canning, supra, we have considered de novo the 
judge’s decision and the record in light of the exceptions 
and  briefs.    We  have  also  considered  the  now-vacated 
Decision and Order, and we agree with the rationale set 
forth  therein.    Accordingly,  we  affirm  the  judge’s  rul-
ings,  findings,  and  conclusions  and  adopt  the  judge’s 
recommended  Order  to  the  extent  and  for  the  reasons 
stated in the Decision and Order reported at 359 NLRB 
No. 88, which is incorporated herein by reference.1 The 
                                                

1 In  affirming  the  judge’s  findings  that  the  Respondent unlawfully 
discharged employees Diana Nolen, Natalie Archer, and Traci Atkins, 
we  note  that  the  judge  relied  on  Relco  Locomotives,  Inc., 358  NLRB 
No.  37  (2012),    a  case  decided by  a  panel  that  included  two  persons 
whose appointments to the Board were not valid.  See NLRB v. Noel 
Canning, supra.  Prior to the issuance of Noel Canning, however, the 
United  States  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  Eighth  Circuit  enforced  the 
Board’s  Order  in  Relco  Locomotives,  see  734  F.3d  764  (2013),  and 
there  is  no  question  regarding  the  validity  of  that  court’s  judgment.  
Nevertheless, we would affirm the judge’s findings regarding employ-
ees Nolen, Archer, and Atkins even without relying on Relco, as it is 
well established that the Board may infer antiunion animus from all the 
circumstances presented in a case.  See Facchina Construction Co., 343 

361 NLRB No. 135

judge’s recommended Order, as further modified herein, 
is set forth in full below.

ORDER

The  National  Labor  Relations  Board  orders  that  the 
Respondent,  JAG  Healthcare,  Inc.  d/b/a  Galion  Pointe, 
LLC,  Galion,  Ohio,  its  officers,  agents,  successors,  and 
assigns, shall

1. Cease and desist from
(a) Refusing to hire bargaining unit employees of Vil-
lage  Care,  the  predecessor  employer,  because  of  their 
union-represented status during the predecessor’s opera-
tion or because of their union activity, or otherwise dis-
criminating against these employees to avoid being obli-
gated to recognize and bargain  with Service Employees 
International Union, District 1199, WV/KY/OH (the Un-
ion).

(b)  Refusing  to  recognize  and  bargain  in  good  faith 
with  the  Union  as  the  exclusive  collective-bargaining 
representative  of  its  employees  in  the  following  appro-
priate unit: 

All full-time and regular part-time service and mainte-
nance employees, including  nurses’ aides, housekeep-
ers, dietary aides and cooks, laundry employees, activi-
ty aides, environmental aides, and maintenance helpers 
employed by the Respondent, but excluding all regis-
tered  nurses,  licensed  practical  nurses, department 
managers/supervisors,  office  clerical  employees,  tech-
nicians,  professional  employees,  confidential  employ-
ees, management employees, guards and supervisors as 
defined in the Act.  

(c)  Changing  bargaining  unit  employees’ wages, 
hours,  and  other terms  and  conditions  of  employment 
                                                                             
NLRB 886, 887–888, 896–897 (2004), enfd. mem. 180 Fed. Appx. 178 
(D.C. Cir. 2006).    

In ordering the tax compensation and Social Security reporting rem-
edies, we rely  on Don Chavas, LLC d/b/a Tortillas Don Chavas, 361 
NLRB No. 10 (2014).  

In addition, we modify the judge’s remedy pursuant to our decision 
in Pressroom Cleaners, 361 NLRB No. 57, slip op. at 6 (2014).  Thus, 
the Respondent must restore the predecessor’s terms and conditions of 
employment  until  the  parties  bargain  in  good  faith  to  agreement  or 
impasse,  and  it  may  not  attempt  in  compliance  proceedings  to  prove 
what the terms and conditions would have been if it had complied with 
its obligation to bargain.  In regard to the judge’s recommended remedy 
for the Respondent’s unlawful changes to unit employees’ contractual 
benefits, we add that, to the extent that an employee has made personal 
contributions to a fund in lieu of the employer’s delinquent contribu-
tions during the period of the delinquency, the Respondent will reim-
burse the employee, but the amount of such reimbursement will consti-
tute  a  setoff  to  the amount  that  the  Respondent  otherwise  owes  the 
fund.  Finally, we substitute the attached notice in accordance with our 
decision in Durham School Services, 360 NLRB No. 85 (2014). 

2

DECISIONS OF THE NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD

without first giving the Union notice and an opportunity 
to bargain about those changes. 

(d) Telling employees that there will be no union at the 

Galion Pointe facility. 

(e)  Orally  issuing  or  maintaining  an  unlawful  no-

solicitation/no-distribution policy.

(f)  Disciplining  employees  or  otherwise  restraining, 
coercing,  or  interfering  with  their  exercise  of  the  rights 
guaranteed  by  Section  7  of  the  Act  because  they  talk 
about the Union during worktime, despite allowing other 
nonwork-related discussions by employees. 

(g)  Discharging  or  otherwise  discriminating  against 
employees for supporting the Service Employees Interna-
tional  Union,  District  1199,  WV/KY/OH, or  any  other 
union,  or  for  engaging  in  union  or  protected  concerted 
activities that are covered by Section 7 of the Act.

(h) In any like or related manner interfering with, re-
straining,  or  coercing  employees  in  the  exercise  of  the 
rights guaranteed them by Section 7 of the Act.

2.  Take  the  following  affirmative  action necessary  to 

effectuate the policies of the Act.

(a)  Notify  the  Union  in  writing  that  the  Respondent 
recognizes  the  Union  as  the  exclusive  representative  of 
the bargaining unit employees under Section 9(a) of the 
Act  and  that  it  will  bargain  with  the  Union  concerning 
terms  and  conditions  of  employment  for  the  bargaining 
unit employees. 

(b) On request, bargain with the Union as the exclusive 
representative  of  bargaining  unit  employees  at  Galion 
Pointe regarding wages, hours, and other terms and con-
ditions  of  employment  and,  if  an  understanding  is 
reached,  embody  such  understanding  in  a  signed  agree-
ment.

(c)  On  the  Union’s  request,  rescind  any  or  all  of  the 
changes  in  the  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  for 
the unit employees that were unilaterally implemented on 
or after July 1, 2010. 

(d) Make bargaining unit employees  whole  for losses 
caused  by  the  Respondent’s  failure  to  apply  the  terms 
and  conditions  of  employment  that  existed  immediately 
before the Respondent began operations at Galion Pointe, 
in  the manner  set  forth  in  the  remedy  section  of  the 
judge’s decision as amended in this decision. 

(e)  Before  implementing  any  changes  in  bargaining 
unit employees’ wages, hours, or other terms and condi-
tions of employment, notify and, on request, bargain with 
the  Union  as  the  exclusive  collective-bargaining  repre-
sentative  of  employees  in  the  bargaining  unit  described 
above.

(f)  Within  14  days  from  the  date  of  this  Order,  offer 
employment  to  the  former  employees  of  Village  Care 
named  below,  in  their  former  jobs  or,  if  those  jobs  no 

longer  exist,  in  substantially  equivalent  positions,  with-
out prejudice to their seniority or any other rights or priv-
ileges  previously  enjoyed,  discharging  if  necessary  any 
employees hired in their places:

Julie Barnhart,  Martha Bair (Swiger), Martha Bishop, 
Sharon Brady, Jolene Dennis, Ceileata Dotson, Vicky 
Ely,  Wanda  Haney,  Kathleen  McIe,  Sandra  Nolen, 
Sandra Ohler, Brenda Peterman, Brandi Riley, Shirley 
Sedmak, Mary Siegenthal, Bobbie Stephens, Cassandra 
Storer, Delena Teeter, Judy Watts, and Jackie Zent.

(g)  Make  the  employees  named  in  paragraph  2(f) 
whole for any loss of earnings and other benefits suffered 
because  of  the  Respondent’s  unlawful  refusal  to  hire 
them, in the manner set forth in the remedy section of the 
judge’s decision as amended in this decision, less any net 
interim earnings, plus interest.

(h) Within 14 days from the date of this Order, remove 
from its files any reference to the unlawful refusal to hire 
the  employees  named  in  paragraph  2(f)  and,  within  3 
days thereafter, notify them in writing that this has been
done  and  that  the  refusal  to  hire  them  will  not  be  used 
against them in any way.

(i)  Within  14  days  from  the  date  of  this  Order,  offer 
Natalie Archer, Traci Atkins, and Diana Nolen full rein-
statement to their former jobs or, if those jobs no longer 
exist, to substantially equivalent positions, without prej-
udice  to  their  seniority  or  any  other  rights  or  privileges 
previously enjoyed.

(j) Make Natalie Archer, Traci Atkins, and Diana No-
len whole for any loss of earnings and other benefits suf-
fered as a result of the discrimination against them, in the 
manner  set  forth  in  the  remedy  section  of  the  judge’s 
decision as amended in this decision, less any net interim 
earnings, plus interest.

(k) Within 14 days from the date of this Order, remove 
from its files any reference to the unlawful discharges of 
Natalie Archer, Traci Atkins, and Diana Nolen, and with-
in 3 days thereafter, notify the employees in writing that 
this  has  been  done  and  that  the  discharges  will  not  be 
used against them in any way.

(l) Compensate bargaining unit employees for the ad-
verse  tax  consequences,  if  any,  of  receiving  lump-sum 
backpay awards, and file a report with the Social Securi-
ty  Administration  allocating  the  backpay  awards  to  the 
appropriate  calendar  quarters  for  each  bargaining  unit 
employee.

(m) Preserve and, within 14 days of a request, or such 
additional  time  as  the  Regional  Director  may  allow  for 
good cause shown, provide at a reasonable place desig-
nated by the Board or its agents, all payroll records, so-
cial security payment records, timecards, personnel rec-

GALION POINTE, LLC

3

ords and reports, and all other records, including an elec-
tronic copy of such records if stored in electronic form, 
necessary  to  analyze  the  amount  of  backpay  due  under 
the terms of this Order.

(n) Within 14 days after service by the Region, post at 
its facility in Galion, Ohio copies of the attached notice 
marked  “Appendix.”2 Copies  of  the  notice,  on  forms 
provided  by  the  Regional  Director  for  Region  8,  after 
being signed by the Respondent’s authorized representa-
tive,  shall  be  posted  by  the  Respondent  and  maintained 
for 60 consecutive days in conspicuous places, including 
all  places  where  notices  to  employees  are  customarily 
posted.  In addition to physical posting of paper notices, 
notices  shall  be  distributed  electronically,  such  as  by 
email,  posting  on  an  intranet  or  an  internet  site,  and/or 
other  electronic  means,  if  the  Respondent  customarily 
communicates with its employees by such means.  Rea-
sonable steps shall be taken by the Respondent to ensure 
that  the  notices  are  not  altered,  defaced,  or  covered  by 
any  other  material.    If  the  Respondent  has  gone  out  of 
business or closed the facility involved in these proceed-
ings, the Respondent shall duplicate and mail, at its own 
expense,  a  copy  of  the  notice  to  all  current  employees 
and  former  employees  employed  by  the  Respondent  at 
any time since August 23, 2011.

(o)  Within  21  days after  service  by  the  Region,  file 
with the Regional Director for Region 8 a sworn certifi-
cation of a responsible official on a form provided by the 
Region  attesting  to  the  steps  that  the  Respondent  has 
taken to comply.

Dated, Washington, D.C.  December 15, 2014

______________________________________
Mark Gaston Pearce,
             Chairman

______________________________________
Kent Y. Hirozawa,
Member

______________________________________
Nancy Schiffer,
Member

(SEAL)                NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
                                                

2 If this Order is enforced by a judgment of a United States court of 
appeals, the words in the notice reading “Posted by Order of the Na-
tional  Labor  Relations Board” shall  read  “Posted  Pursuant  to  a  Judg-
ment of the United States Court of Appeals Enforcing an Order of the 
National Labor Relations Board.”

APPENDIX

NOTICE TO EMPLOYEES
POSTED BY ORDER OF THE

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD

An Agency of the United States Government

The  National  Labor  Relations  Board  has  found  that  we 
violated Federal labor law and has ordered us to post and 
obey this notice.

FEDERAL LAW GIVES YOU THE RIGHT TO

Form, join, or assist a union
Choose  representatives  to  bargain  with  us  on 

your behalf

fit and protection

activities.

Act together with other employees for your bene-

Choose  not  to  engage  in  any  of  these  protected 

WE WILL NOT refuse to hire bargaining unit employees 
of  Village  Care,  the  predecessor  employer,  because  of 
their  union-represented  status  during  the  predecessor’s 
operation or because of their union activity, or otherwise 
discriminate against these employees to avoid being ob-
ligated to recognize and bargain with Service Employees 
International Union, District 1199, WV/KY/OH (the Un-
ion).

WE WILL NOT refuse to recognize and bargain in good 
faith  with 
the  exclusive  collective-
bargaining representative of our employees in the follow-
ing appropriate unit: 

the  Union  as 

All full-time and regular part-time service and mainte-
nance employees, including  nurses’ aides, housekeep-
ers, dietary aides and cooks, laundry employees, activi-
ty aides, environmental aides, and maintenance helpers 
employed by the Respondent, but excluding all regis-
tered  nurses,  licensed  practical  nurses,  department 
managers/supervisors,  office  clerical  employees,  tech-
nicians,  professional  employees,  confidential  employ-
ees, management employees, guards and supervisors as 
defined in the Act.  

WE WILL NOT change bargaining unit employees’ wag-
es, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment 
without first giving the Union notice and an opportunity 
to bargain about those changes. 

WE WILL NOT tell employees that there will be no un-

ion at the Galion Pointe facility. 

WE WILL NOT orally issue or maintain an unlawful no-

solicitation/no-distribution policy.

WE WILL NOT discipline you or otherwise restrain, co-
erce,  or  interfere  with  your  exercise  of  the  rights  listed 
above  because  you 
the  Union  during 

talk  about 

4

DECISIONS OF THE NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD

fits suffered because of our unlawful refusal to hire them, 
less any net interim earnings, plus interest.

WE WILL, within 14 days from the date of the Board’s 
Order, remove from our files any reference to the unlaw-
ful refusal to hire the above-named employees, and WE 
WILL,  within  3  days  thereafter,  notify  each  of  them  in 
writing that this has been done and that the refusal to hire 
them will not be used against them in any way.

WE WILL, within 14 days from the date of the Board’s 
Order,  offer  Natalie  Archer,  Traci  Atkins,  and  Diana 
Nolen full reinstatement to their former jobs or, if those 
jobs no longer exist, to substantially equivalent positions, 
without prejudice to their seniority or any other rights or 
privileges previously enjoyed.

WE  WILL make Natalie Archer, Traci Atkins, and Di-
ana Nolen whole for any loss of earnings and other bene-
fits  suffered  as  a  result  of  the  discrimination  against 
them, less any net interim earnings, plus interest.

WE WILL, within 14 days from the date of the Board’s 
Order, remove from our files any reference to the unlaw-
ful discharges of Natalie Archer, Traci Atkins, and Diana 
Nolen, and WE WILL, within 3 days thereafter, notify each 
of  them  in  writing  that  this  has  been  done  and  that  the 
discharges will not be used against them in any way.

WE  WILL  compensate  bargaining  unit  employees  for 
the adverse tax consequences, if any, of receiving lump-
sum backpay awards, and WE WILL file a report with the 
Social  Security  Administration  allocating  the  backpay 
awards to the appropriate calendar quarters for each bar-
gaining unit employee.

JAG HEALTHCARE, INC. D/B/A GALION POINTE,
LLC

can 

be 

Board’s 

decision 

The 
at 
www.nlrb.gov/case/08-CA-039029 or by using the QR code 
below.  Alternatively, you can obtain a copy of the decision 
from  the  Executive  Secretary,  National  Labor  Relations 
Board, 1099 14th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20570, or 
by calling (202) 273-1940.

found 

worktime,  despite  allowing  other  nonwork-related  dis-
cussions. 

WE  WILL  NOT discharge  or  otherwise  discriminate 
against you for supporting the Service Employees Inter-
national Union, District 1199, WV/KY/OH, or any other 
union,  or  for  engaging  in  union  or  protected  concerted 
activities.

WE  WILL  NOT in  any  like  or  related  manner  interfere 
with, restrain, or coerce employees in the exercise of the 
rights listed above.

WE WILL notify the Union in writing that we recognize 
it  as  the  exclusive  representative  of  our  bargaining  unit 
employees  and  that  we  will  bargain  with  it  concerning 
terms  and  conditions  of  employment  for  the  bargaining 
unit employees. 

WE  WILL,  on  request,  bargain  with  the  Union  as  the 
exclusive representative of bargaining unit employees at 
Galion  Pointe  regarding  wages,  hours,  and  other  terms 
and conditions of employment and, if an understanding is 
reached,  embody  such  understanding  in  a  signed  agree-
ment.

WE WILL, on the Union’s request, rescind any or all of 
the changes in the bargaining unit employees’ terms and 
conditions  of  employment  that  we  unilaterally  imple-
mented on or after July 1, 2010. 

WE  WILL  make  bargaining  unit  employees  whole  for 
losses caused by our failure to apply the terms and condi-
tions of employment that existed immediately before we 
began operations at Galion Pointe. 

WE  WILL,  before  implementing  any  changes  in  bar-
gaining unit employees’ wages, hours, or other terms and 
conditions  of  employment,  notify  and,  on  request,  bar-
gain  with 
the  exclusive  collective-
bargaining  representative  of  our  employees  in  the  bar-
gaining unit described above.

the  Union  as 

WE WILL, within 14 days from the date of the Board’s 
Order,  offer  employment  to  the former  employees  of 
Village  Care  named  below,  in  their  former  jobs  or,  if 
those  jobs  no  longer  exist,  in  substantially  equivalent 
positions, without prejudice to their seniority or any oth-
er rights or privileges previously enjoyed, discharging if 
necessary any employees hired in their places:

Julie Barnhart,  Martha Bair (Swiger), Martha Bishop, 
Sharon Brady, Jolene Dennis, Ceileata Dotson, Vicky 
Ely,  Wanda  Haney,  Kathleen  McIe,  Sandra  Nolen, 
Sandra Ohler, Brenda Peterman, Brandi Riley, Shirley 
Sedmak, Mary Siegenthal, Bobbie Stephens, Cassandra 
Storer, Delena Teeter, Judy Watts, and Jackie Zent.

WE WILL make the employees named in the preceding 
paragraph whole for any loss of earnings and other bene-

