NOTICE:  This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the 
bound volumes of NLRB decisions.  Readers are requested to notify the Ex-
ecutive  Secretary,  National  Labor  Relations  Board,  Washington,  D.C.  
20570, of any typographical or other formal errors so that corrections can 
be included in the bound volumes.

Pessoa  Construction  Company  and Laborers’  Inter-
national  Union  of  North  America.    Cases  05–
CA–034547, 05–CA–034761, and 05–CA–035083

December 15, 2014

SUPPLEMENTAL DECISION AND ORDER

BY MEMBERS MISCIMARRA, HIROZAWA, AND SCHIFFER
On  December  24,  2013,  Administrative  Law  Judge 
Geoffrey  Carter issued  the  attached  supplemental  deci-
sion.  The Respondent filed exceptions and a supporting 
brief, and the General Counsel filed cross-exceptions and 
a  supporting  brief.    The  Respondent  and  the  General 
Counsel each filed an answering brief and a reply brief.  
The National Labor Relations Board has delegated its 

authority in this proceeding to a three-member panel.

The Board has considered the decision and the record 
in light of the exceptions and briefs and has decided to 
affirm  the  judge’s  rulings,1 findings,2 and  conclusions 
and to adopt the recommended Order.
                                                          

1 The Respondent excepts to the judge’s ruling granting certain por-
tions  of  the  General  Counsel’s  motion  for  partial  summary  judgment
and finding that some of the Respondent’s answers to the compliance 
specification and amendments were deficient under the Board’s Rules 
and Regulations.  We find it unnecessary to decide whether the judge’s 
ruling  was  correct.    Even  if  the  judge  was  mistaken,  it  was,  at most, 
harmless error: the judge also ruled on the merits of the allegations in 
the  compliance  specification  and  amendments,  and  we  are  affirming 
those findings.  

The Respondent also argues that the judge erroneously excluded ev-
idence of the discriminatee’s prior criminal convictions.  We find that 
the judge did not abuse his discretion in excluding this evidence.  

2 The General Counsel and the Respondent have excepted to some of 
the judge’s credibility findings.  The Board’s established policy is not 
to overrule an administrative law judge’s credibility resolutions unless 
the clear preponderance of all the relevant evidence convinces us that 
they are incorrect.  Standard Dry Wall Products, 91 NLRB 544 (1950), 
enfd. 188  F.2d 362  (3d Cir. 1951).   We  have  carefully  examined  the 
record and find no basis for reversing the findings.

No party asks us to revisit or overrule St. George Warehouse, 351 
NLRB  961 (2007),  but  the  General  Counsel  excepts  to  the  judge’s 
determination that the Respondent showed that substantially equivalent 
jobs  were  available  during  the  backpay  period  as  required  by  St. 
George.  We find it unnecessary to pass on this exception.  A finding 
that the Respondent failed to carry its burden would not affect the out-
come because the judge found, and we agree, that the General Counsel 
demonstrated  that  the  discriminatee  engaged  in  a  reasonable  effort  to 
find work.  

In affirming the judge’s order, we do not rely on his citations to La-
tino  Express,  359  NLRB  No.  44  (2012),  or  Life’s  Connections,  359 
NLRB  No.  85  (2013).    We  nevertheless  agree  that  the  Respondent 
should not be ordered to compensate the discriminatee for the adverse 
tax consequences of his backpay award or to file a report with the So-
cial  Security  Administration  allocating  backpay  to  the  appropriate 
quarters.    These  remedies  are  not  appropriate  because  they  were  not 

361 NLRB No. 138

ORDER

The  National  Labor  Relations  Board  orders  that  the 
Respondent,  Pessoa  Construction  Company,  Fairmont 
Heights,  Maryland, its  officers,  agents,  successors,  and 
assigns, shall make whole William Membrino by paying 
him $95,046.07, plus interest accrued to the date of pay-
ment  as  prescribed  in  New  Horizons  for  the  Retarded, 
283  NLRB  1173  (1987),  and  Kentucky  River  Medical 
Center, 356 NLRB No. 8 (2010), minus tax withholdings 
required by Federal and State laws. 

Dated, Washington, D.C.  December 15, 2014

Philip A. Miscimarra,                          Member

Kent Y. Hirozawa,                               Member

Nancy Schiffer,                                    Member

(SEAL)          NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD

Chad  M.  Horton  and Theresa  A.  Lenz,  Esqs.,  for  the  General 

Counsel.

Michael Avakian, Esq., for the Respondent.

SUPPLEMENTAL DECISION

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

GEOFFREY  CARTER,  Administrative  Law  Judge.  This  sup-
plemental proceeding was tried before me in Washington, D.C., 
on September 4–6, 9–10, 2013,1 pursuant to a compliance spec-
ification and notice of hearing that issued on May 31, 2013, and 
was amended on August 1, 2013. 

In  the  underlying  administrative  law  judge  (ALJ)  decision, 
Judge  Arthur  Amchan  found  (among  other  violations  not  at 
issue  here)  that  Pessoa  Construction  Company  (Respondent) 
violated Section 8(a)(3) and (1) of the National Labor Relations 
Act (the Act) when it discharged employee William Membrino.  
Judge  Amchan  recommended  that  Respondent  be  required  to 
offer  Membrino  full  reinstatement  to  his  former  job  and  also 
make Membrino whole for any loss of earnings and other bene-
fits suffered as a result of the discrimination against him.  In a 
Decision  and  Order  dated  May  19,  2011,  the  Board  adopted 
Judge Amchan’s recommended Order, with the slight modifica-
                                                                                            
included in the Board’s Order in the unfair labor practice case, which 
has since been enforced by the United States Court of Appeals for the 
Fourth Circuit.  356 NLRB No. 157 (2011), enfd. 507 Fed. Appx. 304 
(4th  Cir.  2013).    Compare  Interstate  Bakeries  Corp.,  360  NLRB  No. 
23, slip op. at 1 fn. 3 (2014) (finding Board no longer possesses juris-
diction to modify Order enforced by court of appeals). 

1 All dates are from 2008 to 2013, as specified where appropriate in 

this decision.

2

DECISIONS OF THE NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD

tion that any backpay or monetary awards would be paid with 
interest compounded on a daily basis. Pessoa Construction Co., 
356 NLRB No. 157, slip op. at 1 & fn. 5 (2011).  On January 
25, 2013, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit en-
forced  the  Board’s  order.    Pessoa  Construction  Co.v. NLRB, 
507 Fed. Appx. 304 (4th Cir. 2013) (per curiam).

The  compliance  specification  at  issue  here  alleges  the 
amount of backpay due under the terms of the Board’s Decision 
and Order.  The General Counsel alleges that Respondent owes 
$107,929  in  backpay  to Membrino,  plus  interest  compounded 
daily and Respondent’s share of FICA contributions.  (GC Exh. 
1(k).)  Respondent maintains that it only owes $912 in backpay 
to Membrino.  (GC Exhs. 1(i) and 1.)

General Counsel’s Motion for Partial 

Summary Judgment

A. Background

On August 23, 2013, the General Counsel notified Respond-
ent  by  email  that  the  General  Counsel  believed  Respondent’s 
answers  to  paragraphs  4(e)  and  (g)  of  the  amendment  to  the 
compliance  specification  were  insufficient  and  not  in  compli-
ance with Section 102.56(b) and (c) of the Board’s Rules and 
Regulations.    Later  that  same  day,  the  General  Counsel  also 
notified  Respondent  that  it  believed  Respondent’s  answers  to 
paragraphs 3 and 4(h) of the compliance specification were not 
sufficiently specific to comply with the applicable Board Rules.  
The  General  Counsel  asked  Respondent  to  file  an  amended 
answer  by  August  30  that  provided  more  specificity  about  its 
assertions and calculations, and warned that if Respondent did 
not  file  an  amended  answer,  the General  Counsel  would  con-
sider  filing  a  motion  for  summary  judgment  or  a  motion  to 
strike  before  the  hearing.    Respondent’s  counsel  replied  by 
email that he was tied up for the afternoon (on August 23), but 
did not take further action to respond to the concerns that the 
General  Counsel  raised  about  Respondent’s  answers  to  the 
compliance specification.  (Motion for Partial Summary Judg-
ment, Exh. 7.)

On September 4, 2013, the first day of trial in this matter, the 
General Counsel filed a motion for partial summary judgment 
in which it asserted that Respondent’s answers to the compli-
ance specification and amendments thereto were deficient un-
der  applicable  Board  Rules  and  Regulations.    In  a  discussion 
held  off  the  record  with  all  parties,  the  General  Counsel  re-
quested that we proceed with the trial (instead of continuing the 
trial to allow Respondent the opportunity to file a brief in re-
sponse to the motion for partial summary judgment), and that I 
consider its motion when preparing my supplemental decision 
and order on the merits.  I agreed, and now turn to the General 
Counsel’s motion for partial summary judgment.  In that con-
nection, I note that although Respondent filed a posttrial brief 
in this matter, it did not address the issues raised in the General 
Counsel’s motion for partial summary judgment.

B. Applicable Legal Standards—Motion for Partial 

Summary Judgment

Section 102.56(b) and (c) of the Board’s Rules and Regula-
tions states as follows regarding the type of information that a 

respondent  needs  to  provide  when  submitting  an  answer  to  a 
compliance specification:

(b) Contents of answer to specification.—The answer
shall  specifically  admit,  deny,  or  explain  each and  every 
allegation  of  the  specification,  unless  the respondent  is 
without knowledge, in which case the respondent shall so 
state,  such  statement  operating  as a  denial.  Denials  shall 
fairly meet the substance of the allegations of the specifi-
cation at issue. When a respondent intends to deny only a 
part of an allegation, the respondent shall specify so much 
of it as is true and shall deny only the remainder. As to all
matters within the knowledge of the respondent, including
but  not  limited  to  the  various  factors  entering into  the 
computation  of  gross  backpay,  a  general denial  shall  not 
suffice. As to such matters, if the respondent disputes ei-
ther the accuracy of the figures in the specification or the 
premises on which they are based, the answer shall specif-
ically state the basis for such disagreement, setting forth in 
detail the respondent’s position as to the applicable prem-
ises and furnishing the appropriate supporting figures.

(c) Effect of failure to answer or to plead specifically 

and in detail to backpay allegations of specification.—
. . . .  If the respondent files an answer to the specification but 
fails to deny any allegation of the specification in the manner 
required by paragraph (b) of this section, and the failure so to
deny  is  not  adequately  explained,  such  allegation shall  be 
deemed to be admitted to be true, and may be so found by the 
Board without the taking of evidence supporting such allega-
tion, and the respondent shall be precluded from introducing 
any evidence controverting the allegation.

Consistent with these rules, the Board has granted motions for 
partial summary judgment when a respondent files a deficient 
answer  (e.g.,  an  answer  that  fails  to  deny  certain  allegations 
with  the  specificity  required  by  Board  Rule  102.56(b))  to  a 
compliance  specification.    See,  e.g.,  SRC  Painting,  LLC,  356 
NLRB No. 74, slip op. at 2 (2011).

C. Analysis—Motion for Partial Summary Judgment

In its motion, the General Counsel requested that I: (a) find 
that Respondent admitted paragraphs 2, 3, and 4 of the compli-
ance  specification,  and  paragraphs  4(e)  and  (g),  and  7  of  the 
amendment to the compliance specification, because Respond-
ent’s answers to those paragraphs were deficient; (b) strike the 
affirmative  defenses  stated  in  paragraphs  1–3  and  5–6  of  Re-
spondent’s  answers;  and  (c)  grant  partial  summary  judgment.  
As discussed below, I find that several aspects of the General 
Counsel’s motion have merit.

1. Should any allegations in the compliance specification 

and amendment thereto be deemed admitted?

a. Paragraph 2—The backpay period

The  General  Counsel  alleged  that  the  backpay period  runs 
from  October  24,  2008,  to  February  8,  2013.    Respondent 
agreed  that  the  October  24,  2008  start  date  is  correct,  and 
acknowledged that it offered to reinstate Membrino on Febru-
ary  8,  2013.    However,  Respondent  also  asserted  that  “the 

PESSOA CONSTRUCTION CO.

3

regular and overtime hours should be based on the three calen-
dar quarters prior to Membrino’s discharge, and calculated that 
Membrino worked an average of 444.6 regular hours and 61.1 
overtime  hours  per  calendar  quarter,  and  was  entitled  to 
$108,397.90  in  net  backpay  (after  deducting  interim  earnings 
from gross backpay of $199,285.90).3  (GC Exhs. 1(d), par. 4; 
1(g).)    Respondent  denied  virtually  all  of  those  allegations, 
maintaining  that:  Membrino’s  regular  and  overtime  earnings 
and hours should be determined based on when he was availa-
ble to work, when he would have worked with employee S.M. 
until laid off, and/or the hours that replacement employee R.S. 
(or other unspecified comparable employees) worked; and that 
the  regular  and  overtime  wage  rates  were  $18/hour  and 
$27/hour, 
that 
Membrino worked an average of 425.5 regular hours and 34.2 
overtime hours per calendar quarter, and further contended that 
Membrino’s gross backpay figure was only $912  (all of which 
was based on the fourth quarter of 2008).  (GC Exh. 1(i), par. 4; 
id. (Exhibit 1).)

  Respondent  also  asserted 

respectively. 

I agree with the General Counsel that Respondent’s answer 
is deficient as to the claims that gross backpay should be meas-
ured based on when Membrino would have been laid off, the 
wages  that  Membrino  would  have  earned  had  he  continued 
working  with  employee  S.M.,  and  the  amount  of  wages  that 
employee  R.S.  earned  as  Membrino’s  alleged  replacement.  
Although these claims raise issues that are within Respondent’s 
knowledge,  Respondent  provided  no  supporting  dates  or  fig-
ures, again leaving the General Counsel to speculate as to what 
countervailing gross backpay formulae or amounts Respondent 
believes are accurate.  

backpay  period  terminated  no  later  than  December  1,  2008.”  
(GC Exh. 1(f).)

The Board’s decision in Aneco, Inc., 330 NLRB 969 (2000), 
is  instructive  as  to  whether  Respondent’s bare  assertion of  an 
alternative  end  date  to  the  backpay  period  was  sufficient.    In 
that case, which involved a compliance specification based on 
an  unlawful  refusal  to  hire  the  discriminatee,  the  respondent 
asserted in its answer that the backpay period would have only 
lasted  2  weeks  because  the  discriminatee  only  needed  that 
amount of time to either organize the respondent’s employees 
or  determine  that  such  efforts  were  futile.    Id.  at  970.    The 
Board  denied  the  General  Counsel’s  motion  for  summary 
judgment  on  this  point,  finding  that  respondent’s  answer  was 
sufficiently  specific  insofar  as  it specified  both  an  alternative 
date for when the backpay period closed, and the basis for the 
alternative date.  Id. at 971.

Based  on  the  Board’s  analysis  in  Aneco,  Inc.,  supra,  I  find 
that  Respondent’s  answer  to  paragraph  2  of  the  compliance 
specification was deficient.  Although Respondent provided an 
alternative date (December 1, 2008) for the end of the backpay 
period,  Respondent  did  not  state  a  basis  for  that  alternative 
date,  thereby  forcing  the  General  Counsel  to  speculate  about 
what theory or evidence Respondent relied upon for its claim.  
Since Respondent did not explain adequately its failure to deny 
the allegations in paragraph 2 of the compliance specification in 
a manner consistent with Board Rule 102.56(b), I will grant the 
General Counsel’s motion for partial summary judgment as to 
paragraph 2, and deem paragraph 2 of the compliance specifi-
cation as admitted as true.2  

b. Paragraphs 3 and 4—Gross backpay formula 

and calculation

In paragraph 3 of the compliance specification, the General 
Counsel alleged that an appropriate measure of gross backpay 
would be the amount that Membrino would have earned had he 
been employed by Respondent throughout the backpay period.  
(GC Exh. 1(d), par. 3.)  Respondent asserted in its answer that 
the appropriate measure of gross backpay was: the difference in 
wages that Membrino would have earned until he became una-
vailable  for  work  under  U.S.  Department  of  Transportation 
(DOT)  regulations;  the  difference  in  wages  that  Membrino 
would  have  earned  until  he  would  have been  laid  off  by  Re-
spondent;  the  amount  of  wages  that  Membrino  would  have 
earned based on work performed with employee S.M.; and/or 
the  amount  of  wages  that  replacement  employee  R.S.  earned.  
(GC Exh. 1(f), par. 3.)

The  parties  disagreed  along  similar  lines  regarding  how  to 
calculate  gross  backpay.    Specifically,  in  paragraph  4  of  the 
compliance  specification,  the  General  Counsel  alleged  gross 
backpay  should  be  calculated  by  adding  Membrino’s  average 
regular  earnings  per  calendar  quarter  to  his  average  overtime 
earnings  per  calendar  quarter,  using  a  regular  wage  rate  of 
$22/hour  and  an  overtime  rate  of  $33/hour  (time-and-a-half).  
The  General  Counsel  also  alleged  that  Membrino’s  average 
                                                          

2 To the extent that Respondent raised an affirmative defense based 
on par. 2 of its answer, I will also grant the General Counsel’s motion 
to strike that defense.

I also agree that Respondent’s answer is deficient as to the 
calculations  that  Respondent  proffered  for  Membrino’s  wage 
rate,  the  average  regular  and  overtime  hours  that  Membrino 
worked, and the amount of gross backpay.  Respondent did not 
state  the  basis  for  its  assertion  that  Membrino’s  regular  wage 
rate would only have been $18/hour during the backpay period, 
nor did it state the basis for its calculations of Membrino’s av-
erage regular and overtime hours worked per calendar quarter, 
or  its  calculation  of  gross  backpay.    Once  again,  Respondent 
should have stated the bases for its calculations in its answer, 
since issues such as Membrino’s wage rate and hours worked 
are  within  Respondent’s  knowledge.    See  Shenandoah  Coal 
Co.,  312  NLRB  30,  31  (1993)  (granting  motion  for  partial 
summary  judgment  regarding  the  amount  of  hourly  wage  in-
creases  because  the  respondent did not propose  an  alternative 
figure or state the basis for such a figure). 

On  the  other  hand,  I  find  that  Respondent  satisfied  the  re-
quirements  of  Board  Rule  102.56(b)–(c)  with  its  claim  that 
gross backpay should account for the “difference in wages that 
[Membrino]  would  have  earned  until  he  was  unavailable  for 
work pursuant to [DOT] regulations.”  (GC Exh. 1(f), par. 3.)  
The Board has held that a general denial is sufficient in a re-
spondent’s answer when the respondent is addressing an issue 
beyond  its  knowledge.    See  Urban  Constructors,  327  NLRB 
1220,  1221  fn.  3  (2000).    That  is  precisely  the  situation  here 
                                                          

3 On  the  first  day  of  trial,  the  General  Counsel  revised  its  net 

backpay figure to $107,929.  (GC Exh. 1(k).)

4

DECISIONS OF THE NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD

regarding Membrino’s availability to work during the backpay 
period  pursuant  to  DOT  regulations,  because  Respondent  did 
not  have  access  to  records  that  (among  other  possible  areas) 
would shed light on Membrino’s medical clearance to work and 
the  validity  of  Membrino’s  CDL  during  the  backpay  period 
until that information was disclosed at trial pursuant to subpoe-
na.  Accordingly, I deny the General Counsel’s motion for par-
tial summary judgment on this issue.   

In sum, in light of the deficiencies in Respondent’s answer to 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the compliance specification, as well as 
Respondent’s failure to explain adequately why it did not deny 
the allegations in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the compliance specifi-
cation in a manner consistent with Board Rule 102.56(b), I will 
grant the General Counsel’s motion for partial summary judg-
ment, and deem admitted as true the General Counsel’s allega-
tions, on the following issues: 

(i)    The  appropriate  formula  for  calculating  gross  backpay 
(see GC Exh. 1(d), par. 3, but note that the gross backpay fig-
ure remains subject to modification based on periods of time 
that  Membrino  was  unavailable  to  work  pursuant  to  DOT 
regulations);
(ii)  The formulae for calculating regular and overtime earn-
ings per calendar quarter (see GC Exhs. 4(b)–(c));
(iii)  The average regular and overtime hours that Membrino 
worked  in  the  three  quarters  before  he  was  discharged  (see 
GC Exh. 1(d), pars. 4(d), (f); GC Exh. 1(g), pars. 4(e), (g)); 
and
(iv)  Membrino’s regular wage rate (see GC Exh. 1(d), par. 
4(h).4

See  Urban  Constructors,  327  NLRB  at  1220–1221  (granting 
motion for summary judgment because the respondent’s answer 
to the compliance specification gave no alternative wage rates, 
backpay  periods,  or  gross  backpay  totals  even  though  those 
issues  concerned  matters  within the  respondent’s  knowledge); 
Structural Finishing, 296 NLRB 439, 440–441 (1989) (same).

c. Paragraph 7—net backpay calculation

In paragraph 7 of the amendment to the compliance specifi-
cation,  the  General  Counsel  alleged  that  Respondent  would 
make  whole  Membrino  as  required  by  the  Board’s  order  by 
paying  $108,397.90,  plus  interest  compounded  daily  and  Re-
spondent’s  share  of  FICA  contributions.    (GC  Exh.  1(g),  par. 
7.)  Respondent offered a general denial to the General Coun-
sel’s  net  backpay  calculations,  and  asserted  that  Membrino 
would  be  made  whole  with  a  net  backpay  amount  of  $912.5  
                                                          

4 To the extent that Respondent raised affirmative defenses based on 
these  aspects  of  pars.  3  and  4  of  its  answers  (with  the  exception  of 
defenses based on Membrino’s alleged unavailability to work pursuant 
to DOT regulations), I will also grant the General Counsel’s motion to 
strike those defenses.

5 Respondent also asserted that interest should not be compounded 
daily,  and  that  the General  Counsel’s  net  backpay  figure  did  not  ac-
count  for  Membrino’s  Federal,  State,  and  social  security  taxes  that 
would  need  to  be  deducted.    (GC  Exh.  1(i),  par.  7.)    I  have  not  ad-
dressed those portions of Respondent’s answer because I am bound to 
follow the  Board’s  ruling  that  interest  on  any  backpay  owed  to 

(GC Exh. 1(i), par. 7.)  The General Counsel asserts that Re-
spondent  failed  to  supply  a  rationale  for  its  calculation of  net 
backpay as $912.  While that point is valid, I nonetheless deny 
the  General  Counsel’s  motion  for  summary  judgment  on  this 
issue  because  the  amount  of  net  backpay  is  not  within  Re-
spondent’s knowledge since net backpay is affected by (among 
other things) Membrino’s interim earnings during the backpay 
period.  Respondent’s general denial of the net backpay figure 
in paragraph 7 of the amendment to the compliance specifica-
tion was therefore sufficient under the Board’s case law.  See 
Urban Constructors, 327 NLRB at 1221 fn. 3.

Finally, I note that while I have granted portions of the Gen-
eral Counsel’s motion for partial summary judgment, I will still 
address those issues on the factual merits, which are discussed 
below.  Turning, therefore, to the factual merits, on the entire 
record,6 including my observation of the demeanor of the wit-
                                                                                            
Membrino    must  be  compounded  daily,  and  Respondent’s  arguments 
about applicable taxes are not relevant to the compliance specification. 
6 The trial transcripts and exhibits generally are accurate, but I make 
the following transcript corrections to clarify the record: p. 7, L. 15: the 
speaker was Mr. Horton; p. 301, L. 8: “self” should be “salt?”; p. 327, 
L. 23: the speaker was Mr. Avakian; p. 328, L. 1: the speaker was Mr. 
Avakian; p. 348,  L.  8: ”paid”  should  be  “applied”; p. 375,  L.  18:  the 
speaker  was  Mr.  Avakian;  and  p.  661,  L.  14:  “redacted”  should  be 
“rejected.” 

I  note  that  on  November  20,  2013,  I  issued  an  order  directing  the 
parties to file corrected versions of certain exhibits to redact personal 
identifiable information and provide pages that were omitted.  Pursuant 
to that order, the parties submitted the following corrected exhibits: GC 
Exhs. 9, 25(a)–(b); R. Exhs. 16–19, 32, 34.  I have replaced the original 
copies of those exhibits in my exhibit file with the corrected versions, 
and I have placed the original copies in a sealed envelope in case they 
are needed for review.  Since the electronic file still contains both the 
original  and  corrected  exhibits,  I  recommend  that  the  Board  take  ap-
propriate steps to ensure that the original exhibits in the electronic file 
are handled in a way that will ensure they (and the personal identifica-
tion information they contain) remain confidential.

I also note that after reviewing the trial transcripts, I determined that 
I prematurely ended a line of questioning during trial related to whether 
Membrino’s  character  for  truthfulness  could  be  challenged  based  on 
certain evidence under Rule 609 of the Federal Rules of Evidence.  (Tr. 
392–394.)  Accordingly, on December 4, 2013, I issued an order direct-
ing the General Counsel to provide information to complete the record 
on that issue.  The General Counsel complied, and after reviewing the 
supplemental information and arguments of the parties’,  I determined 
(as explained in more detail in an order that I issued on December 19, 
2013) that the information is not admissible under Rule 609 because of 
the passage of time, the fact that any probative value of the evidence 
does not substantially outweigh its prejudicial nature, and the fact that 
Respondent did not provide reasonable written notice of its intent to use 
Rule  609  evidence  such  that  the  General  Counsel  would  have  a  fair 
opportunity to oppose the request.  (See FRE 609(b).)  I also found that 
to the extent that Respondent might wish to use the proffered Rule 609 
evidence  to  establish  that  Membrino  made  false  statements  on  job 
applications to interim employers, I note that the evidence is cumula-
tive and irrelevant in light of the admissions that Membrino made else-
where in the record.  (See, e.g., R. Exh. 1, p. 7.)  The pleadings related 
to  my  Rule  609  inquiry  are  part  of  the  record  in  this  case,  but  shall 
remain under seal (except as needed for possible review on appeal or 
for other valid purposes).  I also recommend that the Board take appro-
priate steps to ensure that any pleadings in the electronic file that are 

